# Best applied python practices (and how I used them)

1) **Use virtual environment to run product**

For this project I created python virtual environment to install required packages and avoid incompatibility with other packages I use on my system. 
The environment files are out of this repository, however they will be autogenerated by running `prepare.sh` script.

2. **Check for a minimum required Python version**

In `main.py`, before the Flask application is going to run, there is a check for minimal Python version. In negative case error message is printed, otherwise app start.

3. **Import only required parts from libraries**

I did not simply write `import <lib>` but selected only used fields and classes from them.

4. **Separate long command line into several little ones**

For the return statement of main function I used `\` to separate one long instruction to multiple lines for better readability (you don't need to scroll).

5. **Write condition with 1 instruction in 1 line**

Inside the `if __name__ == "__main__":` condition you can see that `if` statement is converted to 1 command (it takes 2 lines actually, but it's because of tip 4 from this list).



# Used framework

For this product I used Flask framework because it is a micro-framework with only minimal (in basic package) functionality. That implies **better performance** in comparison to more functional frameworks and it's more **lightweited**. At the same time, in case of new fuature requirements (e.g. databases) it is possible to add modules. 

Also, **simplicity and lightness** of Flask allows us to create product based on **micro-service architecture** that is more reliable and productive than monolith one.

There are pros and cons of Flask fremework that can affect on further product development:

| Advantages    | Disadvantages |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| lightweight & fast    | hardly suitable for big applications |
| easy for development  | can process 1 request at a time      |
| support of unit tests | no in-built admin instruments        |
| easily scalable       | security is uncertain                |

# Unit testing
Best practices for testing and how I applied them:
1. **Write tests for a number of scenarios**

I wrote the case to define if webpage is successfully downloaded by its response code. In case it is not - we will notice that.

2. **Set up automated tests**

I used Python framework `unittest` for automation of unit tests

3. **Write deterministic tests**

I separated functionality of getting the time to 2 tests - process of get the page and see the time on gotten page

4. **Avoid logic in tests**

My tests are simple assertions that do not imply complicated logic inside

5. **Reduce test dependencies**

I try to avoid Network communication by addressing to localhost, so by this way I reduce the chance for package mutation to minimum.

